49805: Using Previous Versions of Releases (#393)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/releases-sharing-license-install-script.md

# Sharing License Files and Application Releases

> This topic describes how to share license files and installation commands for currently and previously promoted versions of application releases with

Author: Ok, just reverting this to the old wording then.

### Download and Share License Files

To download and share a license file:

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the Customer page, click on the name of the customer.
1. Click the download license icon on the right side of the row.
1. Share the license file to your customer along with an installation command.

### Share License Files Through the Download Portal

To share the license file through the download portal:

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the Customer page, click on the name of the customer.
1. In the Download portal section, click **Generate new password**.
1. Save the password that appears in the pop-up window. Your customer uses
this password to log in to the download portal.
1. Click **Copy URL** to copy the URL to the download portal to your clipboard.
This is the URL where your customer can access the download portal.
1. (Optional) Click **Visit download portal** to log in to the download portal
and preview your customer's experience.
1. Send the URL and password for the download portal to your customer.

> ## Share Currently Promoted Releases

Reviewer: Same comment here as above. Technically they're all currently promoted. This is more about "Share Most Recently Promoted Release" or "Share Latest Releases." I don't know that I'm happy with those wordings, but something like that.

> Installation commands are unique to each channel. Within each channel, there are installation commands for existing clusters and for Kubernetes installer provisioned clusters (embedded clusters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installation commands are unique to each channel. Within each channel, there are installation commands for existing clusters and for Kubernetes installer-created clusters (embedded clusters).
```

Author: Again, we are likely moving to provisioned. TBD in our next Style Guide meeting, but Paige and I agree that we're not happy with "-created"

> To locate and share an installation command for a currently promoted release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To locate and share an installation command for the most recently promoted release:
```

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the **Channels** page, find the channel to which the
customer is assigned.
1. Under **Install**:
   * Click **Existing Cluster** for installations on an existing Kubernetes cluster.
   * Click **Embedded Cluster** to install the application on a cluster created by the Kubernetes
   installer.
1. Copy the command that is displayed in the Install section, and send it to your customer along with their
license file.

## Share Specific Release Versions

> You can share specific versions of application releases for existing clusters or Kubernetes installer provisioned clusters. This is useful when a customer needs to install a particular version or when you need to install and troubleshoot a specific version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can share specific versions of application releases for existing clusters or Kubernetes installer-created clusters. This is useful when a customer needs to install a particular version or when you need to install and troubleshoot a specific version.
```

Author: We're probably moving towards "provisioned". Keeping this as is for now.

Reviewer: Good to know, thanks.

From the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), select **Channels**.
1. Click **Release history** for the channel that you want to use.
1. Click **Install Commands** for a specific version. From the Existing Cluster tab, click **Copy command** and share it with your customer.

  ![Existing Cluster Command](/images/existing-cluster-command.png)

### Install with an Included Kubernetes Installer (Alpha)

If you included a Kubernetes installer as part of your application release, this coupling makes it easy to provide users with an installation command that uses the correct version of both the installer and the application. For more information about methods for creating Kubernetes installers, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

To install a specific application version that includes a Kubernetes installer in the application release:

1. From the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), select **Channels**.
1. Click **Release history** for the channel that you want to use.
1. Click **Install Commands** for a specific version. From the Embedded Cluster tab, click **Copy command** and share it with your customer.

>   ![Existing Cluster Command](/images/embedded-cluster-command.png)

Reviewer: This image is great except that the command isn't correct. This version must not have an installer in it. The command should look something like this if the installer is in the release:
```
curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/alex-guestbook-2.3.50 | sudo bash
```
This image would be correct if we were using a separate Kubernetes installer.

Author: Since I'm combining them into one procedure, I'm going to use one screenshot as an example.

### Install with a Separate Kubernetes Installer

When you share an installation command for a previous application version that uses a separate Kubernetes installer, the installation command always uses the currently promoted Kubernetes installer. In this case, you might not have tested the latest Kubernetes installer with the earlier application version. For more information about Kubernetes installer methods, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

To install a specific application version with a separate Kubernetes installer, run:

```
curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG-CHANNEL | sudo bash -s app-version-label=VERSION
```

Replace:

- `APP_SLUG` with the name of the application slug.
- `CHANNEL` with the name of the channel.

> - `VERSION` with the version number.

Reviewer: You can still use the "Install Commands" modal for this method too. That modal displays the correct embedded installation command depending on whether the installer is in the release or not. So all three of these methods can/should use the install commands modal.

And in that case, the steps for all the cases are basically the same—the command just looks different for each. So it's up to you whether we need these all separated out or if it can be more condensed (like it is above for "Share Currently Promoted Releases."

1. Click **Copy URL** to copy the URL to the download portal to your clipboard.
This is the URL where your customer can access the download portal.
1. (Optional) Click **Visit download portal** to log in to the download portal
and preview your customer's experience.
1. Send the URL and password for the download portal to your customer.

## Share Currently Promoted Releases

Installation commands are unique to each channel. Within each channel, there are installation commands for existing clusters and for Kubernetes installer-created clusters (embedded clusters).

To locate and share an installation command for a currently promoted release:

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the **Channels** page, find the channel to which the
customer is assigned.
1. Under **Install**:
   * Click **Existing Cluster** for installations on an existing Kubernetes cluster.
   * Click **Embedded Cluster** to install the application on a cluster created by the Kubernetes
   installer.
1. Copy the command that is displayed in the Install section, and send it to your customer along with their
license file.

## Share Specific Release Versions

> You can share specific versions of application releases for existing clusters or Kubernetes installer provisioned clusters. This is useful when a customer needs to install a particular version or when you need to install and troubleshoot a specific version.

Reviewer: I think we use this language elsewhere.
```suggestion
You can share specific versions of application releases for existing clusters or Kubernetes installer-created clusters. This is useful when a customer needs to install a particular version or when you need to install and troubleshoot a specific version.
```

Author: We're trying out "provisioned" as we're really not keen on "-created". Though we may land on "Kubernetes installer cluster" TBD.

Typically you do not need to use these procedures for air gap installations because the application version can be selected in the download portal, and the correct assets are available automatically.

> ### Use an Existing Cluster Installation Command

Reviewer: Something like this feels better to me, since the emphasis isn't on which command you use but on which environment you're installing to.
```suggestion
### Install to an Existing Cluster
```

Reviewer: I don't know if we have other wording elsewhere, but this was my stab at it.

> To use a specific application version for an existing cluster, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install a specific application version to an existing cluster, run:
```

```
curl https://kots.io/install | bash
kubectl kots install APP_SLUG --app-version-label=VERSION
```

Replace:

- `APP_SLUG` with the name of the application slug.

> - `VERSION` with the version number.

Reviewer: If we want to do this as a first pass, that's fine, but I think we talked about how all installation commands will now be available on the release history page. So the steps below for going to that page to get the install commands could be used here too instead of hardcoding this.

**Example:**

```
curl https://kots.io/install | bash
kubectl kots install my-awesome-app --app-version-label=3.1.0
```

### Use a Kubernetes Installer Included in the Release (Beta)

> If you created a Kubernetes installer manifest file as part of your release, this coupling makes it easy to provide users with a specific version of both the installer and the application. For more information about methods for creating Kubernetes installers, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you created a Kubernetes installer manifest file as part of your release, this coupling makes it easy to provide users with an installation command that uses the correct version of both the installer and the application. For more information about methods for creating Kubernetes installers, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).
```

> To use a specific application version that includes the installer manifest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install a specific application version that includes the installer manifest:
```

1. From the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), select **Channels**.
1. Click **Release history** in the Latest release pane for the channel you want to use.
1. Copy the installation command for the version that you want to use and share it with your customer.

    - The curl command shows the application version with name of the channel if it is not the default channel.

      **Example:**
      ```
      curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/my-awesome-app-beta-2.3.30 | sudo bash
      ```

    - If you are using the default channel, the channel name is not shown in the command.

      **Example:**

      ```
      curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/my-awesome-app-2.3.30 | sudo bash
      ```

### Use the Kubernetes Installer Promoted to the Channel

> When you share an installation command for a previous application version where the Kubernetes installer specification is separate from the release, the installation command always uses the currently promoted Kubernetes installer. In this case, you might not have tested the latest Kubernetes installer specification with an earlier application version. For more information about Kubernetes installer methods, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you share an installation command for a previous application version that doesn't include a Kubernetes installer specification, the installation command always uses the currently promoted Kubernetes installer. In this case, you might not have tested the latest Kubernetes installer specification with the earlier application version. For more information about Kubernetes installer methods, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).
```

> # Sharing License Files and Application Releases

Reviewer 2: Notes that apply in a few places:

- I noticed some typos where "an" should be "a". For example, "an previous". Could be good to run a search
- Release version terminology: "current" can sometimes be a little unclear (currently released? currently promoted on the given channel? currently installed from the ent users perspective?). Recommend scanning for places where "current" could be further explained and/or replaced with "latest" when referring to the latest version of an app
- Similar comment with "previous". "Earlier" might be more clear if you think it makes sense in this context

> # Sharing License Files and Application Releases

Author: Thanks for the compliment and the chat. Just adding here for the record that we decided not to remove the note today, but will do so in as the versioning stories unfold.

1. Click **Copy URL** to copy the URL to the download portal to your clipboard.
This is the URL where your customer can access the download portal.
1. (Optional) Click **Visit download portal** to log in to the download portal
and preview your customer's experience.
1. Send the URL and password for the download portal to your customer.

## Share Current Release Versions

Installation commands are unique to each channel. Within each channel, there are installation commands for existing clusters and for Kubernetes installer-created clusters (embedded clusters).

To locate and share an installation command for a current release version:

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the **Channels** page, find the channel to which the
customer is assigned.
1. Under **Install**:
   * Click **Existing Cluster** for installations on an existing Kubernetes cluster.
   * Click **Embedded Cluster** to install the application on a cluster created by the Kubernetes
   installer.
1. Copy the command that is displayed in the Install section, and send it to your customer along with their
license file.

## Share Previous Release Versions

> You can share previous versions of application releases for existing clusters or Kubernetes installer-created clusters for troubleshooting purposes.

Author: Good idea.

Typically you do not need to use these procedures for air gap installations because you choose which versions to upload or download.

### Use an Existing Cluster Installation Command

To use a previous application release version using an existing cluster installation command, run:

```
curl https://kots.io/install | bash
kubectl kots install APP-SLUG -s app-version-label=VERSION
```

Replace:

- `APP-SLUG` with the name of the application slug.
- `VERSION` with the version number.

**Example:**

```
curl https://kots.io/install | bash
kubectl kots install my-awesome-app -s app-version-label=3.1.0
```

> ### Include an Kubernetes Installer (Beta)

Reviewer 2: "Include" almost suggests to me that, after doing this procedure, they will have included a k8s installer in their release. 

Based on the procedure, it sounds like they are sharing the installation command for a release where the k8s installer is included.

I also like how the first h3 calls out "existing cluster". To continue that pattern, I think it could be helpful for these to specifically call out that they are embedded cluster installation commands as well.

I know these headings can get really long as we're getting that specific, so what do you think about something like this with one more layer?

### Share an Existing Cluster Installation Command
### Share an Embedded Cluster Installation Command 

#### Kubernetes Installer Included in the Release
#### Kubernetes Installer Separate from the Release

The idea would be: you're either sharing existing or embedded. Then, within embedded, you're either sharing with the k8s installer included or separate.

> If you created a Kubernetes installer as part of your release, the version of the Kubernetes installer is included with the version of the application. This coupling makes it easy to provide users with a previous version of the installer and application, which is helpful for situations such as disaster recovery. For more information about Kubernetes installer methods, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

Reviewer: I agree, though the suggested wording is a bit off since including the installer in the release is just one of the methods. Something like this could work: "For more information about methods for using a Kubernetes installer…"

To use an previous release version that includes the installer manifest:

1. From the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), select **Channel**.

> 1. Click **Release history** in the Latest Release pane for the channel you want to use.

Reviewer: Should "release" be lowercase here since it is on the webpage? I don't know since it's not bold, I wasn't sure if you were quoting it or not.
```suggestion
1. Click **Release history** in the Latest release pane for the channel you want to use.
```

Author: Yes, we really should use what's in the UI, as much as I dislike that general tech writing rule. Thanks for catching that.

> 1. Copy the installation command for the version that you want to use and share it with your customer.

Reviewer: This method of copying the command from the release history page is going to work for all three of these methods. Does that change how you want to write/arrange this page? At minimum we should reference it in each section, but do we go into fewer details and just tell them to go copy the command? Or do we just mention that but still show them what the command will look like?

Reviewer: This is still true, and I mention this in a comment above too.

Reviewer: Also, here is a screenshot that shows the "Install commands" button that you click to get to the install commands. Additionally, you have to choose the existing or embedded cluster tab to get the right command.
<img width="979" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-01 at 3 49 03 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7272359/176960367-1501bbab-3e17-48d9-b6f4-5d1ca0c48b4b.png">

    - The curl command shows the application version with name of the channel if it is not the default channel.

      **Example:**
      ```

>       curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP-SLUG-beta-2.3.30 | sudo bash

Reviewer: Should this be more general or more specific? It's interesting that we generalize APP-SLUG but then choose a channel and version label arbitrarily. Seems like we should either be specific or general everywhere IMO.

Author: In this case, it is an example rather than the actual syntax, so it should be more specific. Good catch!

      ```

    - If you are using the default channel, the channel name is not shown in the command.

      **Example:**

      ```
      curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP-SLUG-2.3.30 | sudo bash
      ```

  In both examples, replace `APP-SLUG` with the name of your application.

> ### Use a Separate Kubernetes Installer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the Kubernetes Installer Promoted to the Channel
```

> If you created a Kubernetes installer specification that is separate from your application release, you can use an previous version of the application but the installation command uses the currently promoted Kubernetes installer. In this case, you might not have tested the current Kubernetes installer specification with the earlier the application version. For more information about Kubernetes installer methods, see [Creating a Kubernetes Installer](packaging-embedded-kubernetes).

Reviewer 2: Q: "If you created a Kubernetes installer specification that is separate from your application release" --> does this mean if they have ever created a k8s installer that is separate from any release, then this would need to be the consideration? Or, is it when they are trying to share a specific version for which the k8s installer is separate?

If it's the later, recommended re-write to highlight this: "When you share an installation command for a previous application version where the Kubernetes installer specification is separate from the release, the installation command always uses the currently-promoted version of the Kubernetes installer."

Reviewer: That's a good question. The distinction is really whether the release in question has an installer in it or not. The question needs to be asked on a per-release basis. So installing a previous version that includes an installer will work one way, and installing a previous version that doesn't include an installer will work the other way.

I think your wording is spot on.

Author: Yes, I thought her wording was great too.  :)

> To use a previous application release version with a separate Kubernetes installer, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a previous application release version with the Kubernetes installer that is promoted to the channel, run:
```

```

> curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP-SLUG-CHANNEL | sudo bash -s app-version-label=VERSION

Reviewer 2: Ah, good catch. I think we said we want to use underscores for the placeholder text

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the Customer page, click on the name of the customer.
1. In the Download portal section, click **Generate new password**.
1. Save the password that appears in the pop-up window. Your customer uses
this password to log in to the download portal.
1. Click **Copy URL** to copy the URL to the download portal to your clipboard.
This is the URL where your customer can access the download portal.
1. (Optional) Click **Visit download portal** to log in to the download portal
and preview your customer's experience.
1. Send the URL and password for the download portal to your customer.

## Share the Latest Release Version

Installation commands are unique to each channel. Within each channel, there are installation commands for existing clusters and for Kubernetes installer provisioned clusters (embedded clusters).

To share an installation command for the latest application release:

1. In the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), on the **Channels** page, find the channel to which the
customer is assigned.
1. Under **Install**:
   * Click **Existing Cluster** for installations on an existing Kubernetes cluster.

>    * Click **Embedded Cluster** to install the application on a cluster created by a Kubernetes
>    installer.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should clarify that this command will create the cluster—it's not already created. Does this work?
```suggestion
   * Click **Embedded Cluster** to create a cluster with the Kubernetes installer and install the application on that cluster.
```
